#summary Notes of DODP refresh call 30 June 2014

= Notes of Telecon 30 June 2014 =

Present: Dave Gunn (chair/scribe), Keith Creasy, Mark Klarer, Andrew Furlong, Claudio Montalban, Fredrik Schill, Edmar Schut, Dominic Labbé, Takuro Shiroki, Hiro Fujimori.

Regrets: Johan Abbors, Nick Williamson, Jelle Martijn Kok, Per Sennels.

You can listen to the meeting recording by calling 001-712-432-7362 entering the usual meeting code.

== Actions ==
*From previous meeting:*

*Rolling - All* – where possible please reply off list to George to initiate invoice for funding this working group. 

*Rolling - All* – email Dave to nominate yourself as an expert to contribute to the discovery editing process. Nomination received by Fredrik Schill and Johan Abbors.

*New actions:*

*Action All* - please review the updated document to ensure your suggestions have been captured accurately.

*Action Andrew / Claudio* - break the document up and upload to the Google Project space.


== Rotating short presentation – Vision Australia ==

Claudio gave an introduction to DODP work at Vision Australia for the last 5 years. Abbreviated notes:

The current PC service currently supports 1500 users. With a strategic objective to move users online, and have created 3G online player using adapted Plextalk player connecting via DODP, rolling out now and aiming for 3,000 users. Through implementation learned a lot about limitations of the current protocol, for example around dynamic link menus and remotely automating use of the player for the less technically savvy users. There were also differences in the way reading systems implemented DODP support which meant some couldn’t be used with the Vision Australia system, and only the Linio desktop player and Linio Pocket from Plextalk were found to work out of the box with the Vision Australia implementation.

Now working on the next step of the strategy which includes the development of a more automated download station which is device agnostic, and simplifies the download process to an extremely user friendly process.

Also working on an App, which has raised issues around the need for dynamic link menus, and challenges of how they have been implemented by different organisations in different ways. Also challenges around designing a service which can to remotely configure a reading system in the field, and assign user credentials remotely. 
Challenges around diagnosis and logging, and the need to identify when a call has ended – not just started. Ability to differentiate between a device attempting to stream or download a title. It is essential they can be identified and handled separately by separate systems.
There are copyright implications around streaming vs download.

Overall have identified users prefer streaming over downloading, presumably because of immediate access over a short to medium delay before reading is initiated.

Ability to determine if a user has agreed to terms and conditions – which is part of copyright obligations. Currently using a work-around, but would like a standard way to agree terms and conditions.
Communications efficiency between service and reading system to initiate playing, especially over 3G connections constant communications seem to cause a delay which is frustrating to the user.
Users of 3G have complained about a long delay in updating the bookshelf, which can be improved by separating out book metadata component calls.

Overall users love the online delivery system, and have access to content they otherwise wouldn’t have had access to. Currently produce over 300 daily newspapers which would have been impossible before. All using a familiar system to deliver new content in a new way using transparent technology.

== Q&A on the presentation ==

Edmar – we also recognise the need to distinguish between downloads and streams, but not spec part of the protocol, so how can we regulate?
Claudio – we have proposed a solution in the document circulated. When a call in initiated 
But also action type prevention in metadata.
Need device manufacturers to implement the two action types to define the process of initiating download vs stream.
Edmar – understood, but only possible if the player can be forced to tell the system. Because this is an open protocol anyone could create a system which ignored the call.
Claudio – one way around for restricted content would be to block non-compliant players. Not ideal, but could be considered “reasonable steps”. 
Dave – confirmed Vision Australia comments are incorporated within the updated document circulated.
Claudio – still lots of work to do to the document, but all concepts are captured. Looking forward to views of others shaping them going forward.

== DODP Enhancement ==
An updated document based on survey responses has been circulated by Claudio and Andrew. 
Divided into three categories: 
* Enhancements suitable for V1.1
* Potential updates but requiring further information
* V2 updates for another time

Agreed on the call that everyone present was happy was in favour of this approach, and happy to adopt the document for the working group. 

*Action All* - please review the updated document to ensure your suggestions have been captured accurately.

The document will be divided into 3 documents project space:
# In contention for V1.1 update
# Require further clarification
# Bucket list for V2

*Action Andrew / Claudio* - to break the document up and upload to the Google Project space.

== Good practice discussion ==

Suggestions of adding sample code throughout. Any ideas for activities to progress good practice?
Keith – would have benefited from information on how to implement some of the DODP. Some of the tools and schemas may have bugs which make things more complicated. Would benefit from conversation about what works and what doesn’t. 

Dave – this working group could collate feedback for developers?

Keith – sample implementation may alleviate that, and provide something for people to build from.

Andrew – well as sample code (or instead of), perhaps we could include examples and use cases of how it’s applied to help with standardisation.

Dave – good suggestions for us to collate and revisit further down the line.

Keith – awareness of many existing devices out there, and any future updates to the protocol would need to continue to support them.

Dave – this comment came through several times in the survey response and a minor update to 1.1 would hopefully allow better backwards compatibility support for existing reading systems. 

== Next Steps ==
3 weeks remaining of discovery process


== AOB ==
Claudio – would like to hear feedback from device manufacturers to ensure our suggestions and proposals for enhancing the spec will be adopted, as it’s ultimately in their hands?

Plextalk – confirmed happy to talk from the client side development perspective.

Humanware – also involved in the process and happy to share comments throughout the development process.

== Next meeting ==
Monday 7 July 11am UTC

Rotating Short Presentation of learning points from implementing DODP
from Mark and Keith at APH 

Enhancement feature focus - Periodicals